#summary Page for the OWL/CNL OWLED task force
#labels Taskforce

= Rationale =

The mathematical nature of description logics has meant that domain experts find it hard to understand OWL-based ontologies. This forms a significant impediment to their creation and reuse. If domain experts' knowledge is to be represented and verified, an easily readable syntax for writing ontologies is needed.   

= Features =

 * Reading (rendering) and writing

= Scoping Issues =

 * Language coverage alternatives
   * All of OWL 1.1, including extralogical features, annotations, datatypes, etc.
   * Concept expression language only (with axiomatic structure indicated otherwise, e.g., by indentation)
   * Some tractable fragment(s)
   * Core OWL 1.1 axioms only (i.e., logical content only) 
 * Strict roundtrippability
 * Task - what's the language trying to do? Ontology specification, Querying and Reasoning may each be suited to different specifications.
 * Testing - how do we actually know people find it easy/easier than other syntaxes?

= Morphology issues =

OWL has (named) classes, object properties, data properties, individuals, numbers, datatype facets.
What are their CNL counterparts?

  * Class names
    * Nouns?
    * Countable nouns? Mass nouns?
    * Both singular and plural (e.g. man, men)?
    * Both lowercase and uppercase (e.g. man, Man)?
    * Multiword units (e.g. bus driver) are allowed?
    * Always preceded by a determiner (e.g. a, an, the, some, every, no)?
    * Attributive adjectives (rich man)?
    * Predicative adjectives (a man is rich)?
    * Intransitive verbs (a man waits)?
    * ing-forms (a man is smiling) are allowed?

  * Object property names
    * Transitive verbs (like)?
    * Both 3rd person forms (likes) and infinitives (does not like, do like)?
    * Transitive adjectives (fond of)?
    * Comparative adjectives (taller than)?
    * Multiword units (e.g. smiles at) are allowed?
    * Passives (is liked by) are allowed?
    * Non-contiguous forms (has ... as a father) are allowed?
    * of-construction + noun (the father of John) is allowed?
    * Saxon genitive + noun (John's father) is allowed?
    * "weird" verbs (John has-father Bill) are allowed?
    * Nouns (John father Bill) are allowed?

  * Data property names
    * Transitive verbs (E equals 2.718...)?
    * of-construction + noun (The age of John is 10) is allowed?
    * Saxon genitive + noun (John's age is 20) is allowed?

  * Individual names
    * Propernames?

  * Anonymous individuals
    * Common nouns (e.g. There is a man that owns a car.)?

  * Numbers
    * Numbers are 0, 1, 2, ...?
    * Numbers as words (one, two, ...) are allowed?
    * Should 0 be allowed? Forcing one to use negation instead would maybe result in more readable texts...

  * Datatype facets
    * Could we allow, e.g. John's age is >21.; John's age is 13-19.
    * ...
 
 
= Syntax Issues =
 * Data-properties can be hard to handle, see e.g. the definition of data ranges in the OWL 1.1 spec: http://webont.org/owl/1.1/owl_specification.html#4.3
 * Some OWL 1.1 axioms (e.g. DisjointUnion) are a concise notation to express a large number of axioms. At least in some cases, graphical means seem better. e.g. the pie-chart visualization of DisjointUnion that Protege 4 offers seems better than any natural language representation.
 * Long syntactic patterns - useful to convey meaning the first time, but tiresome to type 100 times... 

= Next Steps =
  * Comparison of existing Controlled English syntaxes for OWL including Rabbit, Sydney and ACE. Download from [http://code.google.com/p/owl1-1/downloads/list]
  * Consideration of Empirical Studies - which approach has been found most effective?
  * Start moving towards consensus on the best CNL translation for each OWL 1.1 construct


= Bibliography =

  * [http://attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/site/ Attempto group]'s work on CNL for OWL
    * [http://webont.org/owled/2007/PapersPDF/submission_22.pdf Verbalizing OWL in Attempto Controlled English] is an OWLED07 paper which discusses the mapping of OWL 1.1 axioms to ACE sentences
    * [http://attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/site/docs/owlace_constructionrules.html OWL ACE Construction Rules] define sentence structures which are used when mapping OWL ontologies to ACE
    * [http://attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/site/docs/writing_owl_in_ace.html Writing OWL ontologies in ACE] discusses the other direction, i.e. mapping ACE sentences to OWL axioms. Note that a much larger subset of ACE than used for OWL->ACE is considered.
      * Implementation of ACE->OWL, see http://attempto.ifi.uzh.ch/ape/ (switch on "OWL FSS" in the menu)
  * Rabbit structured English 
    * [http://webont.org/owled/2007/PapersPDF/submission_1.pdf Using Structured English to represent a Topographic Hydrology Ontology]
    * Ontologies written in Rabbit - http://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/ontology
  * Sydney OWL Syntax
    * [http://webont.org/owled/2007/PapersPDF/submission_24.pdf Sydney OWL Syntax - towards a Controlled Natural Language Syntax for OWL 1.1]
    * http://www.ics.mq.edu.au/~rolfs/sos/
    * http://www.ics.mq.edu.au/~rolfs/peng/
  * [http://webont.org/owled/2007/PapersPDF/submission_45.pdf Requirements for the treatment of multilinguality in ontologies at FAO] 
  * [http://image.ntua.gr/swamm2006/resources/paper11.pdf Image Browsing and Natural Language Paraphrases of Semantic Web Annotations] -- Contains pilot user student measuring "understandability"
  * Avi Bernstein's group 
   * [http://www.ifi.uzh.ch/ddis/staff/goehring/btw/files/BernsteinEtAl_Gino_ISWC_2006.pdf GINO - A Guided Input Natural Language Ontology Editor]
   * [http://www.ifi.uzh.ch/ddis/staff/goehring/btw/files/Kaufmann_Querix_Demo_ISWC2006.pdf Querix: A Natural Language Interface to Query Ontologies Based on Clarification Dialogs]
   * [http://www.ifi.uzh.ch/ddis/staff/goehring/btw/files/Kaufmann_NLP-Reduce_ESWC2007.pdf NLP-Reduce: A "naïve" but Domain-independent Natural Language Interface for Querying Ontologies] 
  * Rafaella Bernardi et al, University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy, Controlled natural language for querying

= People =

 * Catherine Dolbear (point person)
 * Bijan Parsia
 * Kaarel Kaljurand
 * Anne Cregan