#summary Coordination page for OWLED 2007 in, esp. scribing

= Some key links =

 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/ OWLED 2007 homepage]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/Proceedings.html Accepted papers]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/FinalProgramme.html Schedule]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax Wiki Syntax]

= Scribing =

Since OWLED is a "working" workshop, most of the interesting activity takes place in the discussion. In order to capture some of this, we ask participants to "scribe" the sessions, i.e., take notes to record major points, questions, and decisions. Since this is _very_ hard on the scribe, generally people take turns. This year, in addition to having people take turns as "principle scribe" for a session, there will also be plenty of opportunity for people to collaborate on the scribing via a real time collaborative editor. At OWLED 2007, the editor will be [http://ace.iserver.ch/index.php ACE], which is a cross-platform, real time, share space collaborative editor.

The way it will work is that someone (likely the principle scribe) will set up a new document to share at the start of each session, and anyone will be free to subscribe to the document. The syntax will be Google Code's [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax wiki syntax], which will enable us to publish the sessions to the web immediately.

So, please download  [http://ace.iserver.ch/index.php ACE] and play with it.

If you're willing to be principle scribe for a session, please drop Bijan a line. As we produce minutes, they'll be linked to from here.

 * S1: Applications in Industry
 * S2: OWL and Rules in Applications
 * S3: Query languages and Extensions 
 * Panel 1
 * OWL: Present and beyond? *VERY IMPORTANT SESSION FOR SCRIBING*
 * S4 : Implementations  and API
 * Panel 2
 * S5: OWL and Requirements in Life Sciences  
 * S6: Experiences in Sciences and Life-Sciences
 * S7: Ontology formats
 * Panel 3
 * Ongoing and Future Standarization Efforts *VERY IMPORTANT SESSION FOR SCRIBING*
 * S8: Ontology Reasoning and Engineering
 * Business Meeting and Closing *IMPORTANT FOR SCRIBING*