#summary Notes from Session on Query Languages and Extensions

= Session3: Query Languages and Extensions =

== Adding Integrity Constraints to OWL ==

 * ICs
  * Error detection
  * Domain constraints
   * lives can only be stated for UK residents
  * Participation constraints
   * Must know where a person lives
 * OWL
  * Things handled differently in OWL., e.g. end up deriving existence of some new unnamed individual.
  * Can't model ICs in OWL
  * Makes reasoning unnecessarily complex.
 * Idea
  * ICs as in relational dbs
  * Separate TBox into standard axioms (S) and integrity constraints (C)
  * Notions of IC satisfaction and algorithms
 * Details
  * No change in TBox reasoning.
  * Axioms in S derive new facts
  * ICs model-check all available facts
 * Result
  * If ICs are OK, can throw them away for answering positive UCQs.
 * In practice
  * Model OWL Ontology as usual
  * Mark axioms as ICs
   * Expect most axioms to become ICs
  * Add ABox
  * Check IC Satisfaction
   * Efficient procedure possible
  * Answer ABox queries
   * Should be more efficient.

== Extending Fuzzy Description Logics for the Semantic Web ==

 * Fuzzy Sets
  * Usual stuff
  * Applications
   * Image Analysis
   * Geospatial apps: bus stop "close" to cinema
   * Medical apps: "high temp"
 * Fuzzy DLs
  * TBox/RBox unchanged
  * ABox assertions with values. 
  * Semantics: well-defined model theoretic
  * Reasoning
   * Tableaux
   * Reduction to crips DLs
   * Mixed Integer Programming
   * Fuzzy DL-Lite
  * Implementations
   * FiRE
    * Tableaux for fuzzy SHIN
    * Connected to Sesame. Serialise fuzziness to triples
     * Query using SPARQL/SeRQL
   * Reduction
    * KAON2 fuzzy SHIN
   * Fuzzy DL-Lite with fuzzy CQs
    * OntoSearch2
   * FuzzyDL

== Can OWL model football leagues? ==

 * Motivation: Modelling football
 * Simple attempt
  * Failed to capture everything, e.g. constraints.
   * No two leagues in the same year in same nation. 
   * Codes for matches are unique in round.
   * Can only referee one match per round
  * Assertions are based on identifiers
  * Can we add more expressive identification constraints?
 * DL-Lite_A
  * Can capture conceptual modelling
  * TBox polynomial
  * Query logspace in data
  * Can use relational engine to answer queries
  * Logic fine-tune in order to guarantee nice complexity
 * Identification Assertions
  * Collection of roles identify classes
 * Reasoning
  * DL-Lite_A + Idenfication Assertions still polynomial
  * Can derive new identification assertions
 * Implementation
  * QuOnto system

== SPARQL Query for OWL-DL ==

 * DAWG
  * Hooks for extending SPARQL with OWL
  * Gap between understanding conjunctive queries and SPARQL
  * Experience based on people writing queries and ending up with unexpected results.
 * Why SPARQL-DL?
  * Query languages for RDF/OWL
   * RDF-based
    * RDQL
    * SPARQL
    * SeRQL
    * Syntax of language and assertions mixed
   * DL-based
    * DIG ASK
    * nRQL
    * OWL-QL
   * None satisfactory for OWL-DL
  * Goals
   * Mix ABox/TBox/RBox queries
   * OQL-DL compatible semantics
   * Align with SPARQL
    * Define as entailment regime
   * Avoid implementation burdens
 * Why not SPARQL?
  * Problematic queries involving quantification over the language primitives
 * Details
  * Query atoms include subclass, equivalentclass, property etc.
  * Complex class expressions, but no variables
  * Various kinds of queries. Mixed ABox/TBox
  * Simplest thing that covers the examples they've seen.

== Q&A ==

 * Cregan: Fuzzy Reasoning. Being tall to degree 0.7. Based on some distribution of stuff. Will be different for different populations. How to integrate this difference?
  * A: Have to first measure the heights. Partition the space (fuzzily). Done outside the DL formalism. Some integration in tools
 * Rector: Boris. Constraints are against inferences. 1. Does that implky that youre counting on incremental classification, so that you're working against inferred verion
  * A: This is orthogonal. Definition of constraint satisfaction is indepent to this. Assumes from scratch.
 * Rector: Same sort of issues w.r.t classes. Limiting what can be said
  * A; Understand this, Crossed my mind but no answer ready.
 * Ruttenberg: DL Lite. In bio, need DL-Lite but also transitivity. is this know to be intractable?
  * A: Haven't looked at what happens. Have looked at extensions but not that one.  Want to explouit translation to relation dbs. Any kind of extension will loe that property. DL-Lite on the borders of tractabilbitiy.
 * Lutz: Boris. Decision to make IC part of TBox. TBox has two purposes. GCI (itentional) IC (extensions). Is this confusing?
  * A: This is a feature not a bug. Could express constraints unsing MKNF or some extension of OWL. IN db inclusion dependences and constraints. Query containment then computed w.r.t. the constraints. Data reasoning: checks. Intentional reasnoning: intensional interpreteation. Whehn Modelling, want to modelk as a normal ontology. Then when adding data, get to the second level. DB system also use your intentional constrraint to answer extensionsl queries.
 * Patel-Schneider: Can throw away IC when doing ABox reasoning. Might they be hints for th reasoner?
  * A: Couold do what dbs do and reqrite query using the ICs. Don't need them when answering. 
 * Moeller: Bijan. For semantics do you use gronded queries? INdividuals bound to those explicitle menioned?
  * A: Allow for both. Syntax for distinguhishing them. 
 * Parsia: Any examples of mid to larger than mid size ontologies using fuzzy stuff
  * A: Yes. Extended LUBM.
 * Parsia: ANy that don't give me the creeps?
  * A: Use case scenario. Shortly everyone will be able to see them