#summary Main page for the DL Safe SWRL Rules task force.
#labels OWLED,Taskforce,Rules

= Introduction =

The DL Safe SWRL Rules task force is chartered to produce a report on how to add DL Safe rules to OWL in a way compatible with the SWRL W3C member submission.  The current proposal is in SafeRulesOverview.

= Participation =

Participation is open to all interested parties.  To join, send email to [mailto:pfpschneider@gmail.com Peter F. Patel-Schneider].

= Possible Parts of the Report =

  * Use cases for rule extensions to OWL
  * Options for DL Safe SWRL Rules, e.g., binary, n-ary
  * Syntax for DL Safe SWRL Rules
  * Implementation techniques for DL Safe SWRL Rules
  * List of partial and complete implementations of DL Safe SWRL Rules

Volunteers to create or edit parts of the report are very welcome.  If you have an existing document that could serve as the start of part of the report, don't hesitate to bring it forward.  

= Activities =

It is expected that most of the activities of the task force will play out in public-owl-dev@w3.org.  Messages related to this task force should be tagged with "Rules:".   Progress will be documented in this wiki.  Results (interim and final) of the taskforce, in particular versions of parts of the report suitable for discussion by the larger OWLED community, will be placed in the [http://webont.org/owled/taskforces/ WebOnt task force] pages. 

If needed, there will be occasional teleconferences.  Face-to-face meetings are not expected, except, perhaps, at OWLED meetings.

= Core Actions Needed (in rough order) =

  * Check whether the DL-safe rules paper has everything needed for the task force.
  * Check whether the RIF WG rules syntax and semantics are adequate for task force needs.
  * Examine differences between SWRL and RIF syntax.
  * Write up a document outlining a proposed solution.
  * Write up the proposed solution in detail.
  * Write explanatory documents.

= Timeline =

It would be nice to have something concrete to report at the interim OWLED meeting in March/April 2008.  This means getting decent documents together by January/February 2008.

= Bibliography =

  * [http://www.w3.org/Submission/SWRL/ SWRL: A Semantic Web Rule Language. ]  Ian Horrocks, Peter F. Patel-Schneider, Harold Boley, Said Tabet, Benjamin Grosof, Mike Dean. W3C Member Submission 21 May 2004.  http://www.w3.org/Submission/SWRL/
  * DL Safe Rules paper: [http://www.fzi.de/KCMS/kcms_file.php?action=link&id=404 Query Answering for OWL-DL with Rules. ]  Boris Motik, Ulrike Sattler, and Rudi Studer. ISWC-2004, pp. 549-563.  http://www.fzi.de/KCMS/kcms_file.php?action=link&id=404
  * [http://km.aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de/ws/prowl2006/ Practical Reasoning with OWL and DL-Safe Rules] a half-day tutorial at ESWC 2006
  * Understanding SWRL [http://clarkparsia.com/weblog/2007/08/12/understanding-swrl-part-1/ Part 1], [http://clarkparsia.com/weblog/2007/08/27/understanding-swrl-part-2-dl-safety/ Part 2], [http://clarkparsia.com/weblog/category/semweb/rules/swrl/ Part 3]

= Usage =

   * http://webont.org/owled/2007/PapersPDF/submission_36.pdf

= Implementations =

  * [http://kaon2.semanticweb.org/ KAON2]
  * [http://pellet.owldl.com/ Pellet]

= People (active participants please add yourselves) =

 * [mailto:pfpschneider@gmail.com Peter F. Patel-Schneider] (point person)
 * [http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~bparsia/ Bijan Parsia]