#summary Coordination page for OWLED task forces
#labels OWLED,Taskforce,Featured

= Introduction =

Participants at an OWLED may agree to pursue certain goals (for example, an extension to OWL such as OWL 1.) for the subsequent OWLEDs. Pursuit of these goals are organized into task forces, each of which has a coordination point person. 

There is a fairly extensive description of OWLED task forces on the task force [http://webont.org/owled/taskforces/ home page].

This page is to aid with coordination.

= Specs =

 * SparqlOwl - [TF:SPARQL]
 * OwlCnl - [TF:CNL]
 * RichAnnotations- [TF:RA]

= Reports =

 * SafeRules - [TF:Rules]
 * ImportsManagement - [TF:Imports]
 * DatabasEsque features - [TF:DbE]
 * UncertainOwl - [TF:UnO]
 * [Education] - [TF:Edu]
 * MacrosAndSyntax - [TF:Mac]
 * UserRequirements - [TF:Req]


= Joining =

To join a task force you need to have a gmail address, available at https://www.google.com/accounts/NewAccount.  (You can always just forward any mail that goes to that address to your usual email address.)  Then you should email the point person for the task force asking to join the task force and providing your gmail address.  The point person will then get you added as a project member.  Once this is done, you can edit pages on the wiki, etc., etc.

As soon are you are added to the project, you should add yourself to the task force participants list on the task force main page.  Then you should consider sending a message to public-owl-dev@w3.org outlining your interests.  As well, adding pointers to the task force page to your work is encouraged.