#summary Page for the User Requirements OWLED task force.
#labels OWLED,Taskforce
= Introduction =

The User Requirements Task Force  aims to identify requirements to improve the utility and deployment of the OWL language by users communities esp. in industrial organizations.


= Report =

The TF will produce a report including use cases, requirements, and recommendations to guide theoretical and application developments. Volunteers to create or edit parts of the report are very welcome. If you have an existing document that could serve as the start of part of the report, don't hesitate to bring it forward.

= Milestones =

 * Summarize main usage of OWL and OWL1.1 based on OWLED 2007 papers, and discussions stemming from the Life Sciences and Industry Panels.
 * Identify key requirements that are not met in OWL 1.1, but are essential for users communities (e.g; for the OBO biomedical community) or frequent types of applications (e.g.; for data integration). Give tightly limited examples that illustrates issues identified.
 * Generate a publishable document that illustrates by some working - small, well constrained examples - collected from use cases, how a particular feature in OWL 1.0, OWL 1.1 (e.g.; inverse functional, anti-symmetric, declaration, annotation) can/should be used
 * Define other kind of support helpful for the development of OWL ontology/applications in HCLS or industry (for example, a mailing list for OWL users, a wiki including various information e.g; on tools/software, a more intelligent system etc.), potentially in collaboration with the [Education] task force.


= Bibliography =

 * [http://www.med.univ-rennes1.fr/lim/doc_61.pdf  A Web ontology language requirements w.r.t expressiveness of taxononomy and axioms in medicine] 
 * [http://www.aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de/WBS/phi/RoW06/ Web rules for Health Care and Life Sciences: use cases and requirements]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_20.pdf A survey of requirements for automated reasoning services for bio-ontologies in OWL]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_26.pdf An Examination of OWL and the Requirements of a Large Health Care Terminology]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_36.pdf Describing chemical functional groups in OWL-DL for the classification of chemical compounds]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_42.pdf Rule-Based Reasoning With A Multi-Scale Neuroanatomical Ontology ]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/paper_40.pdf Representing Phenotypes in OWL]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_29.pdf The OBO to OWL mapping, GO to OWL 1.1!]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_39.pdf Current and future uses of OWL for scientific data frameworks: successes and limitations]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_2.pdf Ontologies in OWL for Rapid Enterprise Integration]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_2.pdf Ontology Engineering For Product Development]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_47.pdf Use case: ontology to support system verification process]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_44.pdf Querying multiple sources with OWL ontologies: an exploratory study in an automotive company]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_30.pdf Semantic Web Technologies in Technical Automotive Documentation]
 * [http://owled2007.iut-velizy.uvsq.fr/PapersPDF/submission_47.pdf A business case of the use of ontologies for knowledge capitalization and exploitation]

= Related =
 * [http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/hcls/ HCLS interest group]
 * [http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/sweo/  Semantic Web Education and Outreach Group]
   * See their [http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/sweo/public/UseCases/  use cases] page.
= People =

 * Christine Golbreich, UVSQ (point person)
 * William Bug, BIRN and Drexel University - Laboratory for Bioimaging & Anatomical Informatics
 * Michel Dumontier, Carleton University - Department of Biology
 * Maryann Martone, BIRN and UCSD - Department of Neurosciences
 * Anne Monceaux, EADS
 * François-Paul Servant, RENAULT
 * Kent Spackman, SNOMED
 * Holger Stenzhorn, IFOMIS and University Hospital Freiburg - Medical Informatics Department
 * Suzette Stoutenburg, MITRE Corporation

